“Ripper	can	have	some	tea	out	of	my	saucer,”	said	Aunt	Marge	as	they	all
trooped	into	the	kitchen,	leaving	Harry	alone	in	the	hall	with	the	suitcase.	But
Harry	wasn’t	complaining;	any	excuse	not	to	be	with	Aunt	Marge	was	fine	by
him,	so	he	began	to	heave	the	case	upstairs	into	the	spare	bedroom,	taking	as
long	as	he	could.
By	the	time	he	got	back	to	the	kitchen,	Aunt	Marge	had	been	supplied	with
tea	and	fruitcake,	and	Ripper	was	lapping	noisily	in	the	corner.	Harry	saw
Aunt	Petunia	wince	slightly	as	specks	of	tea	and	drool	flecked	her	clean	floor.
Aunt	Petunia	hated	animals.
“Who’s	looking	after	the	other	dogs,	Marge?”	Uncle	Vernon	asked.
“Oh,	I’ve	got	Colonel	Fubster	managing	them,”	boomed	Aunt	Marge.
“He’s	retired	now,	good	for	him	to	have	something	to	do.	But	I	couldn’t	leave
poor	old	Ripper.	He	pines	if	he’s	away	from	me.”
Ripper	began	to	growl	again	as	Harry	sat	down.	This	directed	Aunt
Marge’s	attention	to	Harry	for	the	first	time.
“So!”	she	barked.	“Still	here,	are	you?”
“Yes,”	said	Harry.
“Don’t	you	say	‘yes’	in	that	ungrateful	tone,”	Aunt	Marge	growled.	“It’s
damn	good	of	Vernon	and	Petunia	to	keep	you.	Wouldn’t	have	done	it	myself.
You’d	have	gone	straight	to	an	orphanage	if	you’d	been	dumped	on	
my
doorstep.”
Harry	was	bursting	to	say	that	he’d	rather	live	in	an	orphanage	than	with
the	Dursleys,	but	the	thought	of	the	Hogsmeade	form	stopped	him.	He	forced
his	face	into	a	painful	smile.
“Don’t	you	smirk	at	me!”	boomed	Aunt	Marge.	“I	can	see	you	haven’t
improved	since	I	last	saw	you.	I	hoped	school	would	knock	some	manners
into	you.”	She	took	a	large	gulp	of	tea,	wiped	her	mustache,	and	said,	“Where
is	it	that	you	send	him,	again,	Vernon?”
“St.	Brutus’s,”	said	Uncle	Vernon	promptly.	“It’s	a	first-rate	institution	for
hopeless	cases.”“I	see,”	said	Aunt	Marge.	“Do	they	use	the	cane	at	St.	Brutus’s,	boy?”	she
barked	across	the	table.
“Er	—”
Uncle	Vernon	nodded	curtly	behind	Aunt	Marge’s	back.
“Yes,”	said	Harry.	Then,	feeling	he	might	as	well	do	the	thing	properly,	he
added,	“All	the	time.”
“Excellent,”	said	Aunt	Marge.	“I	won’t	have	this	namby-pamby,	wishy-
washy	nonsense	about	not	hitting	people	who	deserve	it.	A	good	thrashing	is
what’s	needed	in	ninety-nine	cases	out	of	a	hundred.	Have	
you
	been	beaten
often?”
“Oh,	yeah,”	said	Harry,	“loads	of	times.”
Aunt	Marge	narrowed	her	eyes.
“I	still	don’t	like	your	tone,	boy,”	she	said.	“If	you	can	speak	of	your
beatings	in	that	casual	way,	they	clearly	aren’t	hitting	you	hard	enough.
Petunia,	I’d	write	if	I	were	you.	Make	it	clear	that	you	approve	the	use	of
extreme	force	in	this	boy’s	case.”
Perhaps	Uncle	Vernon	was	worried	that	Harry	might	forget	their	bargain;	in
any	case,	he	changed	the	subject	abruptly.
“Heard	the	news	this	morning,	Marge?	What	about	that	escaped	prisoner,
eh?”
As	Aunt	Marge	started	to	make	herself	at	home,	Harry	caught	himself
thinking	almost	longingly	of	life	at	number	four	without	her.	Uncle	Vernon
and	Aunt	Petunia	usually	encouraged	Harry	to	stay	out	of	their	way,	which
Harry	was	only	too	happy	to	do.	Aunt	Marge,	on	the	other	hand,	wanted
Harry	under	her	eye	at	all	times,	so	that	she	could	boom	out	suggestions	for
his	improvement.	She	delighted	in	comparing	Harry	with	Dudley,	and	took
huge	pleasure	in	buying	Dudley	expensive	presents	while	glaring	at	Harry,	as
though	daring	him	to	ask	why	he	hadn’t	got	a	present	too.	She	also	kept
throwing	out	dark	hints	about	what	made	Harry	such	an	unsatisfactory	person.
“You	mustn’t	blame	yourself	for	the	way	the	boy’s	turned	out,	Vernon,”	shesaid	over	lunch	on	the	third	day.	“If	there’s	something	rotten	on	the	
inside,
there’s	nothing	anyone	can	do	about	it.”
Harry	tried	to	concentrate	on	his	food,	but	his	hands	shook	and	his	face	was
starting	to	burn	with	anger.	
Remember	the	form,
	he	told	himself.	
Think	about
Hogsmeade.	Don’t	say	anything.	Don’t	rise	—
Aunt	Marge	reached	for	her	glass	of	wine.
“It’s	one	of	the	basic	rules	of	breeding,”	she	said.	“You	see	it	all	the	time
with	dogs.	If	there’s	something	wrong	with	the	bitch,	there’ll	be	something
wrong	with	the	pup	—”
At	that	moment,	the	wineglass	Aunt	Marge	was	holding	exploded	in	her
hand.	Shards	of	glass	flew	in	every	direction	and	Aunt	Marge	sputtered	and
blinked,	her	great	ruddy	face	dripping.
“Marge!”	squealed	Aunt	Petunia.	“Marge,	are	you	all	right?”
“Not	to	worry,”	grunted	Aunt	Marge,	mopping	her	face	with	her	napkin.
“Must	have	squeezed	it	too	hard.	Did	the	same	thing	at	Colonel	Fubster’s	the
other	day.	No	need	to	fuss,	Petunia,	I	have	a	very	firm	grip	.	.	.”
But	Aunt	Petunia	and	Uncle	Vernon	were	both	looking	at	Harry
suspiciously,	so	he	decided	he’d	better	skip	dessert	and	escape	from	the	table
as	soon	as	he	could.
Outside	in	the	hall,	he	leaned	against	the	wall,	breathing	deeply.	It	had	been
a	long	time	since	he’d	lost	control	and	made	something	explode.	He	couldn’t
afford	to	let	it	happen	again.	The	Hogsmeade	form	wasn’t	the	only	thing	at
stake	—	if	he	carried	on	like	that,	he’d	be	in	trouble	with	the	Ministry	of
Magic.
Harry	was	still	an	underage	wizard,	and	he	was	forbidden	by	wizard	law	to
do	magic	outside	school.	His	record	wasn’t	exactly	clean	either.	Only	last
summer	he’d	gotten	an	official	warning	that	had	stated	quite	clearly	that	if	the
Ministry	got	wind	of	any	more	magic	in	Privet	Drive,	Harry	would	face
expulsion	from	Hogwarts.
He	heard	the	Dursleys	leaving	the	table	and	hurried	upstairs	out	of	the	way.Harry	got	through	the	next	three	days	by	forcing	himself	to	think	about	his
Handbook	of	Do-It-Yourself	Broomcare
	whenever	Aunt	Marge	started	on	him.
This	worked	quite	well,	though	it	seemed	to	give	him	a	glazed	look,	because
Aunt	Marge	started	voicing	the	opinion	that	he	was	mentally	subnormal.
At	last,	at	long	last,	the	final	evening	of	Marge’s	stay	arrived.	Aunt	Petunia
cooked	a	fancy	dinner	and	Uncle	Vernon	uncorked	several	bottles	of	wine.
They	got	all	the	way	through	the	soup	and	the	salmon	without	a	single
mention	of	Harry’s	faults;	during	the	lemon	meringue	pie,	Uncle	Vernon
bored	them	all	with	a	long	talk	about	Grunnings,	his	drill-making	company;
then	Aunt	Petunia	made	coffee	and	Uncle	Vernon	brought	out	a	bottle	of
brandy.
“Can	I	tempt	you,	Marge?”
Aunt	Marge	had	already	had	quite	a	lot	of	wine.	Her	huge	face	was	very
red.
“Just	a	small	one,	then,”	she	chuckled.	“A	bit	more	than	that	.	.	.	and	a	bit
more	.	.	.	that’s	the	ticket.”
Dudley	was	eating	his	fourth	slice	of	pie.	Aunt	Petunia	was	sipping	coffee
with	her	little	finger	sticking	out.	Harry	really	wanted	to	disappear	into	his
bedroom,	but	he	met	Uncle	Vernon’s	angry	little	eyes	and	knew	he	would
have	to	sit	it	out.
“Aah,”	said	Aunt	Marge,	smacking	her	lips	and	putting	the	empty	brandy
glass	back	down.	“Excellent	nosh,	Petunia.	It’s	normally	just	a	fry-up	for	me
of	an	evening,	with	twelve	dogs	to	look	after.	.	.	.”	She	burped	richly	and
patted	her	great	tweed	stomach.	“Pardon	me.	But	I	do	like	to	see	a	healthy-
sized	boy,”	she	went	on,	winking	at	Dudley.	“You’ll	be	a	proper-sized	man,
Dudders,	like	your	father.	Yes,	I’ll	have	a	spot	more	brandy,	Vernon.	.	.	.
“Now,	this	one	here	—”
She	jerked	her	head	at	Harry,	who	felt	his	stomach	clench.	
The	Handbook,
he	thought	quickly.
“This	one’s	got	a	mean,	runty	look	about	him.	You	get	that	with	dogs.	I	had
Colonel	Fubster	drown	one	last	year.	Ratty	little	thing	it	was.	Weak.Underbred.”
Harry	was	trying	to	remember	page	twelve	of	his	book:	
A	Charm	to	Cure
Reluctant	Reversers.
“It	all	comes	down	to	blood,	as	I	was	saying	the	other	day.	Bad	blood	will
out.	Now,	I’m	saying	nothing	against	your	family,	Petunia”	—	she	patted
Aunt	Petunia’s	bony	hand	with	her	shovel-like	one	—	“but	your	sister	was	a
bad	egg.	They	turn	up	in	the	best	families.	Then	she	ran	off	with	a	wastrel	and
here’s	the	result	right	in	front	of	us.”
Harry	was	staring	at	his	plate,	a	funny	ringing	in	his	ears.	
Grasp	your
broom	firmly	by	the	tail,
	he	thought.	But	he	couldn’t	remember	what	came
next.	Aunt	Marge’s	voice	seemed	to	be	boring	into	him	like	one	of	Uncle
Vernon’s	drills.
“This	Potter,”	said	Aunt	Marge	loudly,	seizing	the	brandy	bottle	and
splashing	more	into	her	glass	and	over	the	tablecloth,	“you	never	told	me
what	he	did?”
Uncle	Vernon	and	Aunt	Petunia	were	looking	extremely	tense.	Dudley	had
even	looked	up	from	his	pie	to	gape	at	his	parents.
“He	—	didn’t	work,”	said	Uncle	Vernon,	with	half	a	glance	at	Harry.
“Unemployed.”
“As	I	expected!”	said	Aunt	Marge,	taking	a	huge	swig	of	brandy	and
wiping	her	chin	on	her	sleeve.	“A	no-account,	good-for-nothing,	lazy
scrounger	who	—”
“He	was	not,”	said	Harry	suddenly.	The	table	went	very	quiet.	Harry	was
shaking	all	over.	He	had	never	felt	so	angry	in	his	life.
“MORE	BRANDY!”	yelled	Uncle	Vernon,	who	had	gone	very	white.	He
emptied	the	bottle	into	Aunt	Marge’s	glass.	“You,	boy,”	he	snarled	at	Harry.
“Go	to	bed,	go	on	—”
“No,	Vernon,”	hiccuped	Aunt	Marge,	holding	up	a	hand,	her	tiny	bloodshot
eyes	fixed	on	Harry’s.	“Go	on,	boy,	go	on.	Proud	of	your	parents,	are	you?
They	go	and	get	themselves	killed	in	a	car	crash	(drunk,	I	expect)	—”“They	didn’t	die	in	a	car	crash!”	said	Harry,	who	found	himself	on	his	feet.
“They	died	in	a	car	crash,	you	nasty	little	liar,	and	left	you	to	be	a	burden
on	their	decent,	hardworking	relatives!”	screamed	Aunt	Marge,	swelling	with
fury.	“You	are	an	insolent,	ungrateful	little	—”
But	Aunt	Marge	suddenly	stopped	speaking.	For	a	moment,	it	looked	as
though	words	had	failed	her.	She	seemed	to	be	swelling	with	inexpressible
anger	—	but	the	swelling	didn’t	stop.	Her	great	red	face	started	to	expand,	her
tiny	eyes	bulged,	and	her	mouth	stretched	too	tightly	for	speech	—	next
second,	several	buttons	had	just	burst	from	her	tweed	jacket	and	pinged	off
the	walls	—	she	was	inflating	like	a	monstrous	balloon,	her	stomach	bursting
free	of	her	tweed	waistband,	each	of	her	fingers	blowing	up	like	a	salami	—
“MARGE!”	yelled	Uncle	Vernon	and	Aunt	Petunia	together	as	Aunt
Marge’s	whole	body	began	to	rise	off	her	chair	toward	the	ceiling.	She	was
entirely	round,	now,	like	a	vast	life	buoy	with	piggy	eyes,	and	her	hands	and
feet	stuck	out	weirdly	as	she	drifted	up	into	the	air,	making	apoplectic
popping	noises.	Ripper	came	skidding	into	the	room,	barking	madly.
“NOOOOOOO!”
Uncle	Vernon	seized	one	of	Marge’s	feet	and	tried	to	pull	her	down	again,
but	was	almost	lifted	from	the	floor	himself.	A	second	later,	Ripper	leapt
forward	and	sank	his	teeth	into	Uncle	Vernon’s	leg.
Harry	tore	from	the	dining	room	before	anyone	could	stop	him,	heading	for
the	cupboard	under	the	stairs.	The	cupboard	door	burst	magically	open	as	he
reached	it.	In	seconds,	he	had	heaved	his	trunk	to	the	front	door.	He	sprinted
upstairs	and	threw	himself	under	the	bed,	wrenching	up	the	loose	floorboard,
and	grabbed	the	pillowcase	full	of	his	books	and	birthday	presents.	He
wriggled	out,	seized	Hedwig’s	empty	cage,	and	dashed	back	downstairs	to	his
trunk,	just	as	Uncle	Vernon	burst	out	of	the	dining	room,	his	trouser	leg	in
bloody	tatters.
“COME	BACK	IN	HERE!”	he	bellowed.	“COME	BACK	AND	PUT	HER
RIGHT!”
But	a	reckless	rage	had	come	over	Harry.	He	kicked	his	trunk	open,	pulledout	his	wand,	and	pointed	it	at	Uncle	Vernon.
“She	deserved	it,”	Harry	said,	breathing	very	fast.	“She	deserved	what	she
got.	You	keep	away	from	me.”
He	fumbled	behind	him	for	the	latch	on	the	door.
“I’m	going,”	Harry	said.	“I’ve	had	enough.”
And	in	the	next	moment,	he	was	out	in	the	dark,	quiet	street,	heaving	his
heavy	trunk	behind	him,	Hedwig’s	cage	under	his	arm.H
	
CHAPTER		THREE
THE	KNIGHT	BUS
arry	was	several	streets	away	before	he	collapsed	onto	a	low	wall	in
Magnolia	Crescent,	panting	from	the	effort	of	dragging	his	trunk.	He
sat	quite	still,	anger	still	surging	through	him,	listening	to	the	frantic
thumping	of	his	heart.
But	after	ten	minutes	alone	in	the	dark	street,	a	new	emotion	overtook	him:
panic.	Whichever	way	he	looked	at	it,	he	had	never	been	in	a	worse	fix.	He
was	stranded,	quite	alone,	in	the	dark	Muggle	world,	with	absolutely	nowhere
to	go.	And	the	worst	of	it	was,	he	had	just	done	serious	magic,	which	meant
that	he	was	almost	certainly	expelled	from	Hogwarts.	He	had	broken	the
Decree	for	the	Restriction	of	Underage	Wizardry	so	badly,	he	was	surprised
Ministry	of	Magic	representatives	weren’t	swooping	down	on	him	where	he
sat.
Harry	shivered	and	looked	up	and	down	Magnolia	Crescent.	What	was
going	to	happen	to	him?	Would	he	be	arrested,	or	would	he	simply	be
outlawed	from	the	wizarding	world?	He	thought	of	Ron	and	Hermione,	and
his	heart	sank	even	lower.	Harry	was	sure	that,	criminal	or	not,	Ron	and
Hermione	would	want	to	help	him	now,	but	they	were	both	abroad,	and	withHedwig	gone,	he	had	no	means	of	contacting	them.
He	didn’t	have	any	Muggle	money,	either.	There	was	a	little	wizard	gold	in
the	money	bag	at	the	bottom	of	his	trunk,	but	the	rest	of	the	fortune	his
parents	had	left	him	was	stored	in	a	vault	at	Gringotts	Wizarding	Bank	in
London.	He’d	never	be	able	to	drag	his	trunk	all	the	way	to	London.
Unless	.	.	.
He	looked	down	at	his	wand,	which	he	was	still	clutching	in	his	hand.	If	he
was	already	expelled	(his	heart	was	now	thumping	painfully	fast),	a	bit	more
magic	couldn’t	hurt.	He	had	the	Invisibility	Cloak	he	had	inherited	from	his
father	—	what	if	he	bewitched	the	trunk	to	make	it	feather-light,	tied	it	to	his
broomstick,	covered	himself	in	the	cloak,	and	flew	to	London?	Then	he	could
get	the	rest	of	his	money	out	of	his	vault	and	.	.	.	begin	his	life	as	an	outcast.	It
was	a	horrible	prospect,	but	he	couldn’t	sit	on	this	wall	forever,	or	he’d	find
himself	trying	to	explain	to	Muggle	police	why	he	was	out	in	the	dead	of
night	with	a	trunkful	of	spellbooks	and	a	broomstick.
Harry	opened	his	trunk	again	and	pushed	the	contents	aside,	looking	for	the
Invisibility	Cloak	—	but	before	he	had	found	it,	he	straightened	up	suddenly,
looking	around	him	once	more.
A	funny	prickling	on	the	back	of	his	neck	had	made	Harry	feel	he	was
being	watched,	but	the	street	appeared	to	be	deserted,	and	no	lights	shone
from	any	of	the	large	square	houses.
He	bent	over	his	trunk	again,	but	almost	immediately	stood	up	once	more,
his	hand	clenched	on	his	wand.	He	had	sensed	rather	than	heard	it:	Someone
or	something	was	standing	in	the	narrow	gap	between	the	garage	and	the
fence	behind	him.	Harry	squinted	at	the	black	alleyway.	If	only	it	would
move,	then	he’d	know	whether	it	was	just	a	stray	cat	or	—	something	else.
“
Lumos,”
	Harry	muttered,	and	a	light	appeared	at	the	end	of	his	wand,
almost	dazzling	him.	He	held	it	high	over	his	head,	and	the	pebble-dashed
walls	of	number	two	suddenly	sparkled;	the	garage	door	gleamed,	and
between	them	Harry	saw,	quite	distinctly,	the	hulking	outline	of	something
very	big,	with	wide,	gleaming	eyes.
Harry	stepped	backward.	His	legs	hit	his	trunk	and	he	tripped.	His	wandflew	out	of	his	hand	as	he	flung	out	an	arm	to	break	his	fall,	and	he	landed,
hard,	in	the	gutter	—
There	was	a	deafening	BANG,	and	Harry	threw	up	his	hands	to	shield	his
eyes	against	a	sudden	blinding	light	—
With	a	yell,	he	rolled	back	onto	the	pavement,	just	in	time.	A	second	later,	a
gigantic	pair	of	wheels	and	headlights	screeched	to	a	halt	exactly	where	Harry
had	just	been	lying.	They	belonged,	as	Harry	saw	when	he	raised	his	head,	to
a	triple-decker,	violently	purple	bus,	which	had	appeared	out	of	thin	air.	Gold
lettering	over	the	windshield	spelled	
The	Knight	Bus.
For	a	split	second,	Harry	wondered	if	he	had	been	knocked	silly	by	his	fall.
Then	a	conductor	in	a	purple	uniform	leapt	out	of	the	bus	and	began	to	speak
loudly	to	the	night.
“Welcome	to	the	Knight	Bus,	emergency	transport	for	the	stranded	witch	or
wizard.	Just	stick	out	your	wand	hand,	step	on	board,	and	we	can	take	you
anywhere	you	want	to	go.	My	name	is	Stan	Shunpike,	and	I	will	be	your
conductor	this	eve	—”
The	conductor	stopped	abruptly.	He	had	just	caught	sight	of	Harry,	who
was	still	sitting	on	the	ground.	Harry	snatched	up	his	wand	again	and
scrambled	to	his	feet.	Close	up,	he	saw	that	Stan	Shunpike	was	only	a	few
years	older	than	he	was,	eighteen	or	nineteen	at	most,	with	large,	protruding
ears	and	quite	a	few	pimples.
“What	were	you	doin’	down	there?”	said	Stan,	dropping	his	professional
manner.
“Fell	over,”	said	Harry.
“’Choo	fall	over	for?”	sniggered	Stan.
“I	didn’t	do	it	on	purpose,”	said	Harry,	annoyed.	One	of	the	knees	in	his
jeans	was	torn,	and	the	hand	he	had	thrown	out	to	break	his	fall	was	bleeding.
He	suddenly	remembered	why	he	had	fallen	over	and	turned	around	quickly
to	stare	at	the	alleyway	between	the	garage	and	fence.	The	Knight	Bus’s
headlamps	were	flooding	it	with	light,	and	it	was	empty.
“’Choo	lookin’	at?”	said	Stan.